episode of between sermons.
We are hanging out today.
I can't even talk today.
I'm so excited.
I think it's your attire.
Like you're comfortable.
You look very dapper.
Is that the word?
Does this look like Christmas casual?
It does.
You're looking because I was told to wear Christmas casual for a different video.
Back to our intro, hey, did I even say who I am?
I didn't know it was such a mess.
Rewind, all right, and we don't edit any of this stuff, so you're just along for the ride as we go.
But my name is Brent, I can't even say my name.
This is gonna be a long podcast, it's gonna be so good.
My name is Brent, I am a pastor, I think, of a church called Disciples Church, I'm pretty sure.
That's what we're doing here.
But so this podcast is all about just continuing our conversation from Sunday, taking the monologue of a sermon and turning it into kind of a small group dialogue.
So you get the chance to hang out with us as we talk through the sermon.
And I'm excited about this one because I didn't preach it, which means I get to be on the other side of like the
The whole conversation is going to be great.
I'm just going to listen to the wisdom that's going to pour out of our special guests today.
Yes.
But first, Taisha, as the wonderful co-host, how are you doing today?
I am well.
I'm well.
I'm grateful to be here.
Is your brain and mouth connected better than mine is right now?
Maybe a little.
A little bit?
but you had a lot of, you had to do a video before this, so you had a lot going on, so I'll give you a little break.
That's nothing.
Yeah.
I just read from a teleprompter, it's great.
We need a teleprompter for the podcast.
We need a teleprompter.
That would help me out a lot.
If I could just read, then we'd be good.
No, I think it's good.
You may still be in the overflow from yesterday.
That's what it is.
That's what we're gonna say.
Is that what it is?
Yes, yes, yes.
So Pastor Jason, he ended the Amazing Christian Atheist sermon series yesterday,
with the fear of the Lord.
And man, the Lord showed up.
So it was just overflow.
We had, you got to go ahead.
I was just gonna say, I think yesterday is one of those days where like, if you came at the 830 service or you came at the 1230 service, like you're like, church was great today.
Yeah.
And if you came at the 1030, you're just like, church was, you don't have the words.
There's no words.
And it's really funny, like watching people like be like, Oh,
Wait, what happened?
I went to the other service, like, oh man, now we got a whole group of people that are like, do I just need to go all three services on Sunday just in case?
Funny story, there was a volunteer who came to the 830 service.
She was like, I came, I went home, and I always watch it online.
And she was like, oh wait, something's happening.
Got back in her car and drove back to the 1030 service.
So I was like, wow.
She was like, I don't know what you're doing, God, but don't do it without me.
And she got back in her car.
I think it was all a ploy by Jason.
Jason was really nervous about having to preach three times.
So it was all a ploy by Jason to not have to preach three times.
I have a request of you.
Can I do it twice?
You preach once and I'll preach twice.
Perfect.
Yeah.
So if you if you aren't up to speed on what happened yesterday, so our 830 service went off as usual.
1230 service went off as usual.
1030 service, not usual.
Big audible.
Yeah, the Holy Spirit just kind of dropped the bomb in the room.
I think maybe we're, I think we're maybe 10, 15 minutes past when worship was supposed to end.
And I just tapped Jason on the shoulder.
And I was like, yeah, you're not going to be preaching this service.
He's like, yeah, I know.
It was really easy, quick conversation.
It was like, yeah.
Sorry, I know you did a lot of prep and you're ready for three, but no, you got this one.
I can honestly say that, so I was in the bag during worship and I was watching it, and I was really trying to kind of collect myself, because I was like, man, I got two more services, so I'm like, okay.
And I was sitting there, and I got really this urgency to go into the service.
And I was sitting there like, well, I'm trying to collect myself.
So this internal conversation,
I had to eat my own cooking, and I'll get back to obeying quickly.
And I said, okay, I'm gonna just get in there.
And I'm like, man, but I'm tired.
And so I sit there, and I will say within three minutes, my face was in the floor.
And I mean that literally.
Which is, I'm always open for the Lord to do whatever He wants to do, but that was very overwhelming.
And in that moment,
The Holy Spirit spoke to me saying, your sermon has changed.
And so I'm trying to understand what that meant.
Like, okay, do I take part of it all?
Do I move this and move this?
And later, after literally getting off the floor, it's like, oh, the sermon has changed.
The Lord doesn't need a mouthpiece this service.
He's gonna speak himself.
Oh, the sermon has changed.
And so that's when you said, my preacher, oh yeah, yeah, thank you, gotcha.
Right, so it was, I think the pure,
definition of awesome.
The pure definition of awesome, the way we are supposed to say it, where we are God and His presence.
It was amazing and awesome.
Have you saw a movie and it had like different viewpoints in that movie?
I felt like that 1030 service was that yeah, cuz I saw people doing different things and having different experiences like even me I'm in the middle of like working cuz I typically Sunday's work I'm working and literally guy was like put the phone down like I'm in the building not like he's not always in the building but that moment was definitely a moment where like no, yeah, and I just
under the way that just crashed.
So it was just, it was awesome.
That was my viewpoint.
Yours was on the floor on the face.
Get back at the service.
Mine was like, I'm here.
You need to submit to me.
I don't know what was yours.
Yeah, what was yours?
Managing.
So it is that moment where I'm in it, but I have to be somewhat removed from it in order to
Yeah, everything.
And so it was, yeah, the number of people that just kept looking over at me like, what do we do?
Yeah.
Like what, what happens next?
And so like, I love Pastor Moy so much.
Like he gets up on stage to like do a worship transition.
Yeah.
He like, uh.
You're right.
And he just walked off the stage and he handed me the mic.
He's like, I don't know.
Yeah.
I'm like, it's okay.
But I would say that's appropriate.
Yeah, yeah, 100%.
That's appropriate.
And my hope is that we all, even from our different perspectives, have the same response, which is to pause and to say, God, what do you want?
Like that, to me, whether your face is on the floor or run in the service or stop work and recognize me, or this is where you gotta be a little bit of Moses, you know what I mean?
the people need.
Yeah.
And that's the that's the fun, awful, weird.
Like I would have loved for yesterday be for me.
Yeah.
Like that I I'm just here to.
To receive this moment.
But it definitely I think Saint Moses that was a that was an apt kind of description.
It was like, OK, presence of God is here.
But there's people here.
How do we navigate this?
How do I listen to the Holy Spirit in this moment to know what needs to happen?
So like
So I'm sitting there in prayer, just asking God, okay, what do you need me to do?
Like what do you want to happen next?
And so that's what I'm trying to give visual cues to LaShawn to continue things.
That's where I'm letting Moy sit down and not have to worry about anything.
Poor boy.
Come on, come on down.
That's where I'm like, okay, I need to go up on stage.
I need to bring the, people need to be,
a hands laid on.
So I need to bring the altar team.
So there was so much navigating and managing.
And then even Holy Spirit was like, your mom needs to share.
And so I go across the room and I'm like, hey, I don't know if you're.
Being nice, but.
Yeah, I don't know.
Am I here to tell you, stop ignoring God?
I don't think that's what I'm here to do.
Oh my God.
And so it's like, if you've got something to share,
And I think what I realized is that she wanted to make sure she had the freedom to do it, because they're in a different role in the church now.
And I was like, oh, okay, that's why the Holy Spirit was telling me, because I needed to be the one to reassure her that you always have freedom.
And so, yeah, for me, it was a lot of just like, this moment is awesome, but God's wanted me to
So he was telling you to stop working.
He was telling me to start working.
Which was really funny because at the 830 service, somebody was like, hey, how's your day going?
I'm like, today's awesome.
I'm just attending church.
I wasn't hosting.
I wasn't preaching.
I just get to go to church today.
And God was like, ha.
For me, it was a metaphor for life, though.
Like actually walking in the spirit.
And I know we over spiritualize that sometimes and make it
That's what walking in the spirit, how it functionally looks at different places in our life.
Because we're gonna be in different places of our life.
When we're in leadership, walking in the spirit means you are led directionally by what God is saying in that moment for the people that he has something for.
And it's not to shrink back or to get selfish.
It is a sacrifice to him to say, I would love to have my cup empty and you pouring just for me.
But in this moment,
I have put you in this position for this reason.
And so you need to know how to walk in the spirit.
So you, you need to know whether Pastor Chris is mom in that moment or you're putting her an assignment, right?
And she needs to know.
I know I need like.
prophetic pastor Chris right now and not mom or whatever I'm just using that as an example You know and for me in that moment.
It's yes You're on assignment and just like in school the assigned assignment changes.
Yeah And so yes first service you preach you're gonna preach but this service you're gonna pause and submit and what you were preparing for is happening in front of you
What everything that you saw, Mount Sinai and all that, in Abraham, it's happening in front of you.
This is awe.
When you recognize that I am sovereign, I can change whenever I want to.
And from your perspective as well, you're on assignment, I've given you responsibilities and all of that, but work is not more important than my presence.
Period.
And so it was like, oh, this is life.
This is life.
So it was it wasn't again, the pure definition of an awesome experience.
And then I want to know if you ever listens to the podcast, but I'll tell it to him privately, but publicly just want to acknowledge LaShawn.
Yeah, worship director, just navigating that moment beautifully.
But where I really like I'm so proud of him.
Yeah.
Because at 12 30, he didn't try and force it to happen.
Right.
There's so many worship leaders that would have been like, let's replicate 10, 12, yeah.
It was like, no, God did something special.
Let him do what he wants to do in different spaces at different times.
Like, I'm so proud of him for that, because I think the temptation would have very much been to try to push this thing.
Yeah.
Generate.
Let's go even bigger.
Yeah.
We don't even have another, sir.
We can go for three hours.
Right.
No, that's true.
That was a good perspective.
And that's also obedience.
And it shows, like, he surrendered and he submitted to God.
Yeah.
Because I think that there is a danger sometimes in just trying to chase the emotions.
Yes.
and especially after you've just been blindsided by how amazing God is.
You're so desperate for just that to happen again.
And now all of a sudden you're putting God in a new box.
He jumped out of the one you had and now you've got a new one for him.
Well, God only moves when he interrupts.
And it's like, no, no.
He can move by interruption and he can move by planning.
So what do we go from here?
Is there a takeaway from it?
And these are just, I'm not the co-host.
I'm sorry.
No, go ahead.
I think that's a valid question.
What do you do with that?
Is it a one-off or is it a lesson?
Is it something where God is directing or confirming?
And that's more of a philosophical question.
We don't know the mind of God per se.
But that's just an internal question for me to remain sensitive.
Like, God, are you confirming something to say, yeah, you got it right?
Or it's not even or it can be and and I want to direct something.
You know, you were thinking this or whatever.
So I think if the simplified version, I think it is just a reminder of who's actually in charge of the service.
Like, so we're.
What does that mean for?
So tomorrow we're gonna have a service planning meeting for this coming Sunday.
Does that mean we just show up and we're like, all right guys, let's just let them do the thing.
We don't need this meeting anymore.
I guess we can cancel this one from the calendar.
No, we continue doing our part, like what we're supposed to do.
But it's just an acknowledgement that God, if you wanna interrupt, interrupt.
We have no problem.
If we have a Sunday,
Three services go by and no sermon is preached.
I got no problem with that.
I think it showed where we are as a church.
It shows like we are submitted to him.
We do believe instruction in order, but we, I don't know, it was like, I don't know, it was a perfect balance of like, okay, we recognize this is a moment that God is moving and we submit it to him.
And I don't know, it may be this Christian atheist series
just really is punching us in the gut, you know, and then you preached a good message that 830 service about the reverence of God.
And like, how can you skip past?
You know, so I feel like you're wrestling with something deeper.
Well, it's a, it's a, it's a self, it's a self check.
Yeah.
Right.
Um, biblically, you just had these times where
when God would do something, they would set something up to say, don't forget.
And so it's- The memorial stones.
Yeah, it will be memorial stones and not to per se worship or deify the memorial stones, but it is a testimony.
And one of the things I would say that we've lost is what we used to call testimony services.
retelling of the goodness of God over time.
And people's faith will be ignited to say, wait a minute, if he did it for you or if he did it, then that's the same God that can do it again and do it for me and do it in my family.
And so not per se, like I'm not wrestling with it, but I also want to honor and respect that when God shows up in such a manifested way,
I try to pause to say, God, what are you saying?
Like, what is the memorial here?
Is it, you know, I don't want to be like Peter, like on the Mount of Transfiguration, like let's set up some altars and stuff.
This is all filled with time.
Yeah, I don't want to do that.
I'm not saying to do that.
But I do want to reflect and, you know, make sure that I'm not moving on to the next thing for the sake of let me get back on my schedule.
You know, so that's all.
It's just,
in many ways I just try to slow down because I know with God I can go further faster and deeper if I just wait on him then me toiling to move forward and get it done and replicating and let's do it again.
Let me just pause.
God what are you, what was there a lesson that you need me to learn?
The thing that, sorry you were gonna say something I just jumped in.
The thing that I love about
a day like yesterday for our church is the church we're trying to build here is a church that is balanced in our awe and love and passion for God's Word, but also for His presence.
And I think what ends up happening, and I want to say this without it being like shade or negative or anything, because that's not my intent, but I think that there are a lot of church that
either have one or the other.
Like there's some great churches that have just a passion for the word of God.
But you go in and it just feels like.
I think God's in a different place.
I don't think he's hanging out here.
There's a lack of the presence of God.
And then there's places where it's like the worship and the presence of God, it feels so good.
And then it's like they pull out their Bible and nobody knows chapter reverse for anything.
And it's just kind of like there's a lack of solid teaching.
And so what I love is what we're really trying to do with Disciples Church is a place where you can come and experience the real true presence of God.
and then also have just this respect and love for his word that actually leads us and guides us and corrects us and challenges us.
So like a church that loves both.
I think that's what I want to see.
No, that's good.
I was going to say too, I think it was a lot of individual lessons that God was showing us yesterday.
Like for me, I can get into work mode and devotional time for me can look scarce.
You know what I mean?
For me, it was a reminder to make sure that I'm doing that first and I'm submitted in that way.
And yeah, I know some good things are gonna come from yesterday from me, because I know LaShon called me out on stage with the healing piece.
Nobody knew that until you decided.
I know, but it goes along with what I'm about to say.
Literally.
It goes along.
So it wasn't just like, he knows I've been dealing with like some health things, nothing traumatic, but
For me, healing wasn't just for like body, it was spiritual and mental.
And so I received that and it set me back in alignment with like where I'm supposed to be and who's supposed to be priority.
And like, I think that will regulate everything else in my life.
So, yeah.
But yeah man, that was a whole little deep dive into our encounter here at Disciples Church.
Can I say one last thing about it?
One lesson is that there are some people in our church who have never been in that situation.
Oh yeah, let's not take it for granted.
There are some people who have, they've been here for three or four weeks.
They've been here for maybe six months or whatever.
Or I can say they've never been in a church situation.
I met a guy who had never been a church.
And he was there yesterday.
Wow.
So I'm sure he was in a great day.
What did he say?
I didn't talk to him afterwards.
I was just walking by him and I didn't recognize him.
Not that I recognize everybody, but I just stopped and spoke to him.
He was like, yeah, man.
So, you know, where'd he come from?
He was like, just kind of saw someone online and I walked in, you know, wow.
And he didn't know someone who attends here, and that person was online or something.
So, there was like a connection.
He says, well, I decided to show up, but I'm not from church, man, you know.
So, I'm just here hanging out.
And that was his experience there.
So, there are some individuals who can appreciate, I think, the intellectual side of things.
They can appreciate the word.
And then they were in this space to say, whoa, there's something.
different, and they're all in it, and as a church, I think this is the position we should be in.
They're all in, what is this?
What is this?
And then it causes them to draw near and to figure out, okay, I know you're outside of here, and you're cool, and you're regular, and then I also see you on your knees, and whatever this thing is happening, you're crying, and you're, let's talk about this, what in the world is happening?
Yeah, I think that yesterday was a great reminder of something that my wife and I say to each other a lot is if people are coming to our church to find God, if all they find is us, we have a problem.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So like we want to make sure that when somebody comes to Disciples Church, they're finding God, not just a Ted talk on a stage.
Yeah.
So yesterday was a good.
Great description, though.
I mean, no, that's, I appreciate that.
That's what we are in 2025.
It's a lot of TED Talks.
TED Talks on stage.
I appreciate that.
But okay, let's unpack yesterday's message.
You ended the series.
Cause there was a message.
I did.
I did actually preach twice.
Yeah.
You did.
And so you ended us with the last series of Christian atheists with the fear of the Lord.
So give a quick summary.
I know those who are watching who did not attend Sunday.
They was like, man, I need to where can I watch this to 30 service?
Okay.
So this is what the service is real.
The sermon was really about the fear
fear of the Lord.
So unpack that for us really quickly.
So I gave an equation.
So the fear of the Lord is all or reverence for God, plus obedience, plus worship.
And it is all of those things, not just one.
And you see this in different aspects of the Bible from Genesis to Revelation and everywhere in between.
You see this phrase, fear of the Lord or the fear of God or fear in God.
And so it means that in every aspect of our life, we awe God for his character, period.
You just look at him and recognize that he is God.
He is special.
He's in a category all by himself.
And then you also let that awe lead to your obedience to him.
So our right response to that awe is not just to be in awe and to be stationary.
it moves us to say, this God is calling me to do something.
And that do something is not just always movement, but sometimes it's transformation internally, where no, I just wanna work on this, you're gonna do this, or it is go do this, say this, what have you.
And then ultimately it leads to, and also I should say, it's not always in a row, but it leads to worship, which includes sacrifice of something.
And so there is something that God will call us to do.
In all of him and who he is, he calls us to obey.
He will also say, and this needs to go.
This is a part of you that I am working on.
And I need you to sacrifice this.
And as you sacrifice and as that, there's a gap in your sacrifice, I feel it.
And that's our sanctification process.
So that's the awe of God in terms of how I saw it.
And I didn't even get, and this is a big subject.
I didn't even get to all the benefits of the all God, which I think we rush to because we always want to seek what is, it's in it for me.
Real all means what's in it for me is that I'm in your presence.
If nothing happens after that, that was enough to transform me.
So yeah.
Yeah.
The Bible says fear the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
It's like you need some direction in your life.
Like maybe you need to get back in alignment with, with God is I think
This is where the English language fails us a little bit.
Because you hear the word fear and you immediately think like terror.
Like you think a scary movie, you think like whatever.
So when we talk about the fear of the Lord, it paints this picture of, so I'm supposed to be afraid of him.
It's like, no, fear in this context is not about being afraid.
And I think that's where your grandpa story was such a perfect example.
what he did is yes there was a little bit of afraid of my grandpa but it was in recognition to
Oh, he don't play, right?
Like he has a power and authority in my life that I was starting to take for granted.
And so I think a lot of us need God to just grab us by the ankles and bang us upside down.
Hey, let me just remind you of who I am.
Because you're starting to forget.
I'm wearing the Jesus is my homeboy t-shirt for too long.
And you forgot that I am God Almighty.
He's not just the big man upstairs.
You don't know, man.
Ultimately, it's just this
tendency for man to elevate self and diminish God in some type of way, in our actions and our thoughts, how we consider his word, which points to Pastor Carlton's sermon.
It's this tussle to always figure out a new way to make God closer to me in terms of who he is.
and or elevating me to be closer to him in terms of myself.
And that's the story of mankind, always pulling God down and moving us up.
So I did that.
My grandfather never had to do, never, never had to.
Never had to be corrected by my grandfather again.
He just showed me a different aspect of him that I was
Some lessons you only need once.
I only needed that once.
But I thought that was a perfect example because that's what fear of the Lord looks like.
It's when you recognize his power, his authority, who he is, and you recognize that it should put you in a place of awe and obedience and worship.
He's still God.
Yes.
So what I wanted to do was kind of what we done
with a podcast.
We did some questions that people may have.
And so I got from our good friend.
I'm not going to tell you who, but some questions that people may have about the fear of the Lord.
And you answered the first one, but I'll just ask it again.
You can say I already answered it, but isn't fear a bad thing?
Why would God want us to fear him?
Yeah, it's not a bad thing.
Fear is not the, the fear that we're talking about is not to be afraid of God.
He actually wants to move us to friendship with Him and intimacy.
So the fear of anything else, a dog, whatever, it repels, it moves us away from to protect ourselves.
The fear of the Lord moves us closer to Him and that's the ultimate
purpose is to move us back in union with him and in unity with him and back in service of him and worship of him.
So it is not a bad thing when we're talking about the fear of the Lord.
And if we're doing it the right way, you will start to see that this intimacy and this closeness is refreshing.
Scripture says that the fear of the Lord is pure and it's everlasting.
And so it's in his perfect love actually cast out all fear.
So his perfect love, fearing the Lord will cast out the negative fear to say you don't have anything to be afraid of.
This is where you should be.
I'm the best place for you.
So no, it's not that level of fear.
It draws us closer.
Yeah, and that's where English language sometimes fails us.
Like I think that that probably even becomes more clear in the Hebrew where it's like there's clearly a word that's being used for this type of thing and there's a word being used for this type of thing.
And in English, we just kind of blend those together.
Right.
That makes sense.
Okay, cool.
The next question is, how do I know if I actually fear the Lord?
Formula, right?
You gave it to in the formula.
Yeah.
It's usually around, first of all, it's obedience.
The fear of the Lord is always connected to obedience, period.
The areas where you don't obey, you don't have fear for him in that space.
You know the Holy Spirit is in you, he's convicting you.
If your conscious is still sensitive to him, you know when you are drifting and you make excuses, you provide reasons why you don't have to.
And that negotiating is a space where you need to say, wait a minute,
Lord, I don't fear you in this space, because I'm doing too much to try to get what I want.
So that's one indication is where you are, where you have delayed obedience.
I was going to say, you said that in your message yesterday.
Delayed obedience.
I didn't unpack that because I definitely have a lot of delayed obedience.
So what does this mean for me?
Because you're still maturing.
You're still growing.
OK, OK. None of us are perfect.
Am I cast away?
Have God started His back on me?
No, okay.
You know, and this is where the personal.
I can't wait for the butt.
This is where, well, no, no.
And the personal walk is so important because I could give you 25 things that if you don't do those things, you are walking in the fear of the Lord.
And I could be right.
And then the Lord will give you a personal conviction where he says, well, not for you.
That doesn't work for you.
that I have a place you're going, a calling on your life, a people that you will speak to, a place that you won't be able to do that one thing on the list to do on the 25, or he will make it 26.
And so how do you know really is this personal walkwear, conviction, again, delayed obedience, within how you sacrifice and worship,
I have always learned the places where I'm unwilling to sacrifice is probably where I need to die to.
That is where God is like, no, I'm working on it.
That's something that's become an idol or a substitute as you put it.
Absolutely.
I've got this thing that I'm elevating.
And if I'm not willing to let go of it, then it's become a bad thing in my life.
I'm putting her on blast.
I didn't get her permission.
But I love her.
She loves me enough.
And it's vague enough that actually she didn't tell me the details.
But I was talking with my mother after the 1030 service, and she was still just kind of wrecked by everything, and she was like, at the start of that moment, she's like, I just told God, like, because she had already heard the 830 service, she's like, I've put everything on the altar.
Like, I've, for 50, since I was in my 20, like, I have sacrificed for you.
I've put my entire life on the altar.
What more is there for me to give?
And the Holy Spirit, she said, the Holy Spirit just like,
pointed at one thing in her life.
And she was like, oh.
And it was just, it was such a beautiful moment.
My mother's on the, it's 50 years.
She's like in 50 years of, I mean, and I've watched her like give everything to God.
And after 50 years of giving everything to God, the moment she got a little bit prideful in that, I've done it all.
He was like, that thing right there.
And I was like, man, that makes me feel so much better.
So much better.
Because I haven't been in this as long as you.
And I think I've got more that he'd be pointing with like all 10 fingers.
Like that and that and that.
Here's what we see biblically, especially if you're using the children of Israel as kind of the prototype or the example of mankind.
They will be doing well for a while.
Just read judges.
You would see, and all of a sudden they would stray away.
And I think that is just mankind.
There could be a space where we are doing well, God is pleased.
And there is something within us that we just can, a place of victory, we revisit it and say, well, I'm good there.
Or I can't, it's not that bad.
I've grown in this.
It's not the same.
I was young when I was doing it before, and I can do it now.
And so when Paul says, look, take heed, lest ye fall.
If you think you're good, you better be watching out, because that may be the same place that you're not so good.
And so that, again, is where this personal journey with the Lord, with this why we absolutely need to value the presence of the Holy Spirit in us and don't allow our
pride to flare up or conscious to be seared or pride to start saying, no, it's good.
That really, I've heard this once and I love it.
Satan is like the biggest advocate for mankind.
He's a huge encourager for you to just get everything you deserve.
You deserve to be just like God, Eve.
You deserve to know more.
Why would he do this?
Jesus, you deserve to eat.
You deserve these kingdoms.
Just go ahead and do it.
Actually, I can give them a right to you.
They've been given to me because I actually want this for you.
So just ignore God.
Listen to me so you can get everything you want.
I know what's best for you.
Why would he keep that from you?
Yeah.
Why can't you go there?
So that script
because we should not be ignorant of the devices of the enemy.
That narrative is why we just kind of drift because he's there.
And interesting enough, he will give us that script and give us that narrative and be the same one to be the accuser of the brethren.
Go straight to God and say, see?
I thought they were saved.
That was a good setup.
I mean, do they really fear you?
You ever have a brother that, like, got you to do something wrong?
And then they were the one that went to mom and was like, look what he just did.
Look what is this foolishness?
These are your people?
These are the people you chose?
Right.
Oh my God.
So I think it's a natural tendency for mankind to drift.
And we are forever needing the Holy Spirit to sanctify, that's why he's in us, to sanctify us.
To make us more and more and more like Christ.
And just like children is really like, I got a better way to just, I'd rather do this.
So, sorry.
You got these questions.
I want to make sure you cover these questions.
The questions are just to bring forth other conversation.
No, that's good.
That was a good twist.
You didn't see that coming?
I didn't see that coming, because he do play both sides.
He doesn't tell you.
It's a mess.
I'm tired of getting used.
I'm tired of it.
Tired of being used.
Okay.
Question number three.
Does fearing God mean I can't be close to him?
People want to know if intimacy and fear can coexist.
Absolutely.
That's the point.
In Exodus, Moses said when they were at Sinai, quick, just condense that whole thing.
You gotta read Exodus 19 and Exodus 20.
To summarize Exodus one through 18, God did all of these things to bring them to Sinai.
He gave them the privilege of being in his presence like never before.
God said, listen, here are the structures.
Here's what you got to do.
I'm going to come down in a way.
I'm going to manifest myself in a way where you will be able to hear my voice directly when I'm talking to Moses.
And then there'll be this opportunity.
And it's very interesting when you read the text here in Exodus 19 because you could see
It's like God said, I'm going to allow this horn to be blown and that is the one opportunity where you can come up.
This entire time Moses has been the one, but when you hear this ram's horn, I'm allowed you to come up a little farther.
And so they hear the ram's horn and the Bible says they stood a far off.
He gave them that opportunity.
He came down to this one fixed place so that they can come up.
and they stood afar off.
And Moses says to them, listen, don't be afraid.
This is actually not the time to be afraid.
This is the time he's saying, listen, he wants to prove you and to help you to see, okay, how much you need him, but he actually came down for you.
This is so that you can fear him and won't sin against him.
You can come closer.
And they miss that opportunity.
So to answer your question,
Again, if that's kind of the prototype, there are these spaces where God is saying, no, all of this, I delivered you from Egypt.
I've cleansed you of these things.
I proved myself.
I gave you manna and water.
I did all of that to bring you closer.
So if you fear me, I provide the opportunity for you to experience me ever before.
So the fear of the Lord, the fear of the Lord is for the purpose
of closeness, for intimacy, and so yes, it does coexist.
Yeah, I would just even go a step further and just say for a true level of intimacy, the fear of the Lord's style of fear is essential.
Like, you have to have it.
Like, if I don't have that kind of reverence for my wife, I can sleep around.
Yeah.
I can do all kinds of things to hurt her, because I'm not afraid of it.
I don't have that,
like that reverence for her of saying like she's precious, she is special, she is unique, I'm in awe of her and I would never wanna do anything to hurt her.
The moment I remove that from our marriage, like our marriage is a joke, it becomes a mess.
And so I think probably all of these questions is always gonna come down to do you have the right understanding of the word fear?
Because if fear still means that you're afraid of,
Yeah, that's gonna drive you away.
But the appropriate biblical fear of the Lord is something that draws you closer.
And so yeah, if you want real relationship, real intimacy, there has to be that level of respect and honor and awe and reverence and 100%.
You see how you just shut down all my questions?
All of these questions probably come down to you.
So you can just stop.
I haven't heard your questions.
I haven't seen your questions.
Whatever you're going to say, the answer is.
The answer is already.
Let's just get to the end here.
You have a problem.
Let me lay on this plane.
Are you ready to go?
I have a lot more questions.
Give me more.
Give me a question.
OK, what's the difference between the fear of the Lord and legalism?
Ooh.
Fear of the Lord is to draw you into intimacy with God.
Like the purpose of it is relationship.
Legalism, the purpose of legalism is judgment.
It's criticism.
I'm gonna hold this thing over you.
And so, yeah, I think the difference between the two is one of them is actually kind of built to make you just feel bad.
and the other one is built to make you closer to God.
That would be my hot take.
I'll agree and I'll structure it like this.
It's similar to the difference between condemnation and conviction.
Yeah, yeah.
There you go.
Right?
It's where is the focus?
The fear of the Lord is about the Lord.
It points us to Him.
It draws us to Him.
Legalism is about me.
what I must do to be right.
And it's two different directions.
Conviction leads us to the Lord.
It leads us to repentance.
It leads us to sanctification so that he can get glory.
And he can even love us through that.
Condemnation, I pointed myself.
I feel bad.
I did that.
And guilt and shame come along with that.
And so that difference, legalism essentially is
It stretches out what God has said, adds to it, and then points to me, so that I can walk away feeling better about myself.
And I'll add just a quick anecdote in terms of not necessarily just legalism, but the difference in terms of being able to do something.
Hebrew said that the word of the Lord, it's alive, right, is sharp, two-edged sword,
It's so sharp it can split like bone from marrow, soul from spirit.
It is that just able to get to the root of things.
And the word of the Lord is a discerner of the thoughts and intent of the heart.
And so I had this very, in my marriage, I was doing all the right things.
And I was studying that scripture and I said, man, that's a good word.
I love the word of the Lord, right?
Ah, it's so good.
And I was doing all the right husband things.
And one day, a friend of mine asked me if I was being selfish, because I was like, ma'am, my wife, she don't appreciate me enough.
I was in that kind of, I'm doing this, and I'm doing that.
I'm doing this.
And I remember being in public, in a mall, walking around, fussing.
And the Holy Spirit said, listen, you're only doing it to build your resume.
The reason you're doing it
doing this, paying a bill, and you took to this restaurant, whatever you wanna say.
You're trying to build your resume to check the boxes.
I wanna discern your heart and intent behind it.
And in public, in the middle of this mall, I'm weeping.
I'm trying not to audibly say anything, but tears are flowing.
Because in that moment, he gets to the heart of it.
I was doing things to point to myself.
he's saying no you are a husband to point to me and if you don't have the heart behind it you're off target bro and so that again is an illustration of
The difference between legalism, checking the boxes to say it can point to my perfection and how great I am versus the fear of the Lord that says you actually are demonstrating the love of Christ for his church.
You better straighten up.
That's not how we do things.
It's you need to get right.
And so once we get to this dichotomy where we have to pick like, wait, should I do more stuff?
Actually fear me.
so that I can tell you what to do because it's about me.
So hopefully that gives them how deeply it runs.
I love that balance of, you know, is it about you or is it about him?
Yeah.
And I think that one thing I want to add, you mentioned like the conviction versus condemnation.
And I think there's a danger right now of people pendulum swinging to the opposite end.
Like they were in a legalistic space.
Right.
And so they swung the pendulum to like a free-for-all.
And now even when there's conviction, they're like, oh, that's legalism.
It's like, no, like the Bible just says, like, don't do this thing.
And you're doing this thing.
And so like here, maybe you want to read it and live it.
And so like, we do have to be careful in how we try and compensate for.
Maybe some wounds and I think especially people our age like if you grew up in the 90s Yeah, like you were probably in a very legalistic space.
Yeah That was like the that was the thing in the 90s And so like you got to be careful not to swing so far from that now it becomes this free-for-all because and this ties back into the message When you've got that free-for-all you've lost the fear of the Lord, right?
Like now you're not walking in obedience to him or his word because you're like, oh, but grace is free.
And it's, you know, we're going to keep on doing whatever we want to do.
And Jesus loves me anyways.
And yeah, it's just, it becomes kind of a hot mess.
Here's a high take.
I'm going to probably get in trouble.
Where I fear, and I think where it hides is people use the phrasing.
It's relationship over religion.
or it's not religion, it's relationship.
Which is stupid.
Okay, so you made it worse.
Don't come for me, go for him.
I didn't say it was stupid.
His brand is to call it everything.
Linguistically, Christianity is a religion.
A religion is just to realign to God.
That's essentially what it's called.
How you process your relationship with God, it's called religion.
By definition, you're in a religion.
It's also a relationship.
No, I mean, but again, I think when we use that phrasing, a lot of times it's hiding where we want our liberty to make, to allow us to sin.
And so we're not submitting and we don't fear God in those spaces of our life.
our sexuality, our body, and well, you know, it's not about religion, it's about relationship, and I'm walking with him, and I don't have to go to a church anymore.
You know, I'm spiritual.
It's all of these catchphrases that are under this umbrella of, we just lack the fear of the Lord, you know.
And you hit it like what ends up happening is, and I don't know which one comes first necessarily, but there's an abandonment of church and abandonment of scripture.
And it's because that's religion.
I'm in relationship.
It's like, how do you even know what he likes in this relationship?
Right.
Like it's from reading your word, like it's from the Bible.
And when you're off by yourself and you think you're doing so hot, you actually need the church to be able to say, Hey, we're just going to talk about this issue that you probably don't think you have.
but we're gonna talk about it for a little bit, and the Holy Spirit's gonna be like, hey, he's talking about you.
We need these religious structures in our lives in order to have the relationship.
When you abandon the one, you don't get the other.
You gotta step on a whole bunch of toes.
That's okay, we're pastors, we're supposed to.
I mean really, and that's part of the, okay, no soapbox.
Part of I think what we're missing with that pendulum swing
we forget what pastors in five-fold.
We take the five-fold thing, we run with it, so everybody's everything now.
But really, leadership gifts in the church were for equipping the saints, helping the saints to do the work of ministry.
If you start deviating away, especially from people who are pastors, who are supposed to
lead the flock, help the flock, protect you, teachers who are giving you the word, giving you kind of what this actually means.
Once you start rejecting that, you're ultimately rejecting God's structure and how he wants to direct you.
And so that does include stepping on some toes and that is how
the Lord uses the church to mature us, uses leaders to help us and to sanctify us.
It doesn't always, and I know I said this in terms of personal relationship, this is the balance of that.
It's not so personal it becomes isolation.
And it's not so personal because if you get off to yourself, that's when the enemy is there giving you what you want.
But pastors are to say, hey, that's kind of out of line.
That's not what the word says.
Because theoretically,
We are putting in the work to truly stay before God, to hear what the Holy Spirit is saying, interpret the text correctly to say, this is what it meant then to that people.
This is what it means, period, in terms of the principle, and this is how we properly apply it today.
And that will step on some toes.
That was my soapbox to say, okay.
And then just real quick, just want to admonish, pastors need a pastor too, for the same exact reason.
Because just like we're sitting here as pastors saying, you can't be your own pastor.
You need somebody else in your life.
Even if you are the pastor, you still need a pastor.
Because you still are just as susceptible to that whole, I'm just trying to do my own thing.
And I'm focused on myself.
And I'm not going to call out my own sins.
You need the somebody else in your life that can step on your toes.
Accountability.
Yeah, we all need all offices to be functioning.
I love that.
Now dropping some, some gems on here.
Amen.
Questions.
It's all your questions.
Right.
So great.
A couple more.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you guys.
All right.
Question number five.
Does the fear of the Lord applies to New Testament believers or was this only for the Old Testament?
I think you cut kind of covered that in your message.
I did.
I can't believe.
Let me.
Let me get over myself.
Even if it was just Old Testament, all of the scripture has been given for us to learn, to be cut and built by.
So even if it was just in the Old Testament, it would be for today.
It was a zero power.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I'm just saying like.
People have these questions.
And I understand.
And I just want to make sure that we're clear that all scripture is God-breed.
All scripture is God-inspired.
And even if he put it in the Old Testament, it would still be revealed in some way, in the new.
But it is absolutely in the New Testament.
Paul calls us to be living sacrifices, holy and acceptable.
We are still to fear him.
Jesus said, fear the one who can destroy your flesh and your spirit.
Yes, yes.
So I understand the question.
But all all scripture is God breathe it is for us to do and and there's something to So next year we start this journey through the New Testament and like the thing that's been so hard for me is like
I don't want to miss the Old Testament.
I love the Old Testament.
I get on people all the time.
You don't even understand the New Testament unless you read the Old.
There's so many things.
There's so many phrases.
There's so many pictures.
There's so many examples.
So many things that are happening in the New Testament that are built on the foundation of the Old that you don't even have a full grasp
of what that even means.
When you're reading the New Testament, this is one of my favorite examples, but when you're reading in the New Testament about how you can come boldly before the throne of grace because of what Christ did, that is cool in the New Testament.
Old Testament, that's like a, wait, what?
No, no, no, the throne, no, that space is like, if you go in there in the wrong way, you die.
like this is like not a spiritual death but like a literally like we have to tie a rope around you and drag your carcass out of that room because you were unfit to be in the presence of God like it when you understand the Old Testament because when Jesus was teaching he was teaching from the Old Testament
when Peter, Paul, James, John, when all these guys are teaching and writing the New Testament, they're quoting, they're referencing, they're pulling from the Old Testament.
They're saying, hey, just like you read in the scriptures, here's how Jesus fulfills it today.
So it's like, oh, I can get on a soapbox.
The Old Testament is a beautiful thing.
And I have a feeling we're not gonna miss out on the Old Testament next year.
You're gonna make sure we get a lot.
And that's where it's like, okay, so some of the moments, some of the stories in the Old Testament we may not hit, or you won't hit them for a while,
So much, I mean, when we finally get through Matthew, like the book of Matthew is just the Old Testament, Hebrews.
Hebrews is just the Old Testament.
It's repackaged, but it's the Old Testament.
And I'll just say this to kind of conclude it, but in Isaiah, when Isaiah is prophesying about Jesus, he talks about the spirit of wisdom will be upon him, the spirit of knowledge and the spirit of the fear of the Lord will be his delight.
And he's talking about Jesus.
The spirit of the fear of the Lord is what Jesus delighted in.
And so that direct reference, Jesus just walked around fearing God.
And again, fearing God is obedience and it's worship.
And that you saw Jesus continually point to God in reverence.
Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed, holy is your name.
That is the personification.
the greatest illustration of the fear of God.
In Jesus teaching us how to pray, you are holy, you are separate, I am reverencing you, and I'm a walk out.
There's nothing that I do, Jesus was saying, there's nothing that I do that I don't, at first see the Father, there's nothing I'm doing outside of what He's directed me to do.
That is the fear of the Lord in action.
So, yeah.
The Garden of Gethsemane is like the most beautiful picture of that right there.
Jesus was afraid of the death he was about to experience to the point where he is sweating blood.
Like blood is pouring out of him at the anguish and the turmoil and the literal fear in the American context of fear of what's about to happen.
And yet, because of his fear of the Lord, he says, not my will but your will.
There's an obedience.
There's a sacrifice.
I am terrified of this thing.
but I honor you too much.
I reverence you too much to let this other kind of fear stop me.
That's good.
These are some good.
So fun.
Some good questions.
Yes.
Praise the Lord.
One of these days, I'm going to have the phone with all the questions and we're just going to make Taisha talk.
I love this space for me.
This is good.
I get to glean from the wisdom years above me.
Years.
You call him as old?
So is that what you're saying?
That was kind of a, that felt a little fine.
All right, just a couple more.
Is the fear of the Lord, well, can you love God and still fear Him?
I mean, can you love God and not fear Him?
No.
The, the, again, it's, it's a package deal.
Um, if you love me, you will obey my commandments.
The fear of the Lord includes obedience period.
Um, love.
And obedience are tied.
So it's almost like A plus B equals C and all that kind of stuff.
That's math.
I don't remember it.
But it's a package.
So true love includes obedience.
And that obedience will always drive us to fear the Lord.
So no, you cannot have just, I just love you.
I just love God.
And that's,
That's a Christian atheist.
I just love you, but I never obey.
Yeah.
I would say what you actually are doing, you're loving your idea of God.
You're loving your creation.
Yes.
Yeah.
Right.
You've created God to be this thing and now you love this thing.
But if you actually love God, you will fear him.
Yeah.
That's good.
All right.
What happens when someone doesn't fear the Lord?
Like, so what can happen to someone if they don't fear him?
You become a Christian atheist.
You walk in disobedience.
Yeah.
And walking in disobedience, you know, here's, first I'll say this.
It is possible to live a long life and not fear the Lord and have every semblance of success.
Let me be very clear about that.
Every semblance, you have stuff.
Insert billionaire's name here.
Correct.
So it's not about
If you don't fear the Lord, your life is a wreck.
All right, so I wanna take that off the table.
Like, if you don't fear God, you're just gonna know.
No, it's actually a lot of people that do not fear God.
And they do well.
They just subscribe to a different kingdom.
And the leader of that kingdom is able to bless them.
Okay, so let me at least set that stage.
So it's not about what you see.
This ultimately gets to the point where when we appear before, when we come to judgment,
And we have to give an account of everything we do.
There is an ultimate penalty.
So we can't just look at what happens now.
The ultimate penalty is that the Lord will look at the person and say, I actually don't know you.
You didn't obey me.
You didn't worship me.
You didn't see me as I am.
So you're actually just have to, I'm going to have you depart to my left because I don't know you.
I had no relationship with you on earth.
And so I will have no relationship with you in eternity.
And so, that's what happens.
And I want to, I'm saying it in this way, because I need us to get away from the superficial evidence that, yeah, I must be fearing the Lord.
And I'm going to point to, in Matthew, when Jesus says, depart from me, I never knew you, before the response is the people, they said, but I prophesied.
So I had, my gifts were working.
So this is oddly someone who was active in church and stuff like that.
You prophesied, huh?
But I don't know you.
I actually loved the people that you were in front of more than I love you right now.
So you prophesied so that I can keep my promise to them.
I'll give you some relief that showed up in this in Exodus.
This is Exodus 34.
when God says, I'm gonna keep my promise to you.
He says, but if I go with you, I'll probably kill you.
You are a stiff neck people.
So I'm gonna allow you to go into the promise, but instead of me going, I'm gonna send an angel with you.
And I stopped there and I said, wait, he will keep his promise, his word will never fail, but you will have a semblance of God.
That's like a diminished,
His presence, and that's when Moses interceded and said, Lord, we don't wanna go if you're not going with us.
Now hold on, hold on, stop.
I mean, that's like that consolation prize we don't want.
We don't want your angel and angel to go on your behalf with us.
I get it.
And so it is possible to have a semblance, to have some evidence of God keeping His promise without His presence.
And so once we start looking, and when you put those two things together, in the Old Testament, God told this stiff neck people, I'll allow things to happen and get these promises for me to keep my promise, but my presence won't go.
And then you see in the New Testament, Jesus saying, you will have these gifts because I'm gonna keep promises to the people that are praying to me at your church.
But pastor, I know you profit, but I don't know you.
And so these two things helped me to be very grounded that I should not look at my gifts.
I should not look at my bank account.
I should not look at who likes me as any type of reason to think that I am fearing God properly because I can be in a space and have the results of something without the presence of God.
I don't want that.
So that was my self box moment because I am afraid for people.
I am afraid for people to keep looking at these superficial natural things thinking God must be with me.
It's not okay.
Okay.
And just read the New Testament again.
Yeah.
Like look through Paul, the suffering Paul experienced.
Yes.
But I would say Paul had a great fear of the Lord.
And yet he wasn't wealthy.
Right.
He didn't have
you know, a big house and a fancy car and a beautiful wife, fancy camel or whatever the horse.
They didn't have cars.
So you got to you got to help.
But yeah, like he so like by by those standards of well, if there's a blessing, then it's financial.
Yeah.
Well, then none of the people that actually feared the Lord were blessed and in your context or in your phrasing.
But the Bible would say they were blessed.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And so there's there's something else that maybe I shouldn't bring up because I'm still trying to tease this out and doing some study on my own.
But there is also what appears to be a concept throughout scripture of your level of knowledge dictates like your level of required obedience in the sense of like like too much has been given much is required.
Yeah.
And so I think that that would
possibly put Elon Musk in a different category than somebody who's in church reading their Bible.
And so that's where I'm like, I'm still trying to tease this kind of thing out.
And so when you say you can be blessed or from the appearance of blessing without actually fearing the Lord, I think that you could also say that there are some Christians that when you stop fearing the Lord, your life may fall apart.
I think that I would be comfortable in saying, that's a risk I wouldn't want you to take, that because there's already an expectation of obedience, because you've heard the name, you know what's required, you know what you're supposed to do, now you're not living it out, isn't out of ignorance, it's about rebellion.
And I think ignorance and rebellion are punished differently in scripture.
Hey.
Woo, y'all went too much on this podcast.
I'm gonna have to go back and watch it myself.
But that's still something I'm trying to figure out.
That's heavy.
I mean, it makes a lot of sense, but...
The rebellion is like witchcraft, the Bible says.
It's the same as witchcraft, which is an abomination.
And so that rebellion piece is so dangerous.
And that's why I'm just afraid for people that don't truly seek God and read the Word because they can
be ignorant of it, but also get to the point where we are substituting God and we, that's where you have, I would, you know, I would rather have the zodiac tell me who I am because God, you know, I don't like what God is saying or what he said.
I'd rather have the zodiac.
You know, all these things, palm reading, all these spiritual, it's just like.
It's just a fortune cookie more than.
You know, it's like, man, you are substituting
what God has made clear to you and can continually make clear in order to have something that is more certain, but ultimately you're getting into witchcraft in the sense of not necessarily putting spells on people, but in terms of rebellion, like, no, God, I don't trust you enough.
I don't trust your word.
It's not good enough for me.
And that's why I'm so afraid of people.
especially when they get into that rebellion piece, not the ignorance piece, but an ignorance can be solved through submission in the Word of God.
It's an easy fix for that.
I mean, it's just Lord, I don't know in that humility.
aligns you with God.
And the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, the Bible says.
And the friendship of the Lord, he reveals his secrets and his covenants.
So we have so much evidence within the Word that says, even if you're ignorant, starting with the fear of the Lord is the beginning of you being able to get over to that ignorance and become wise.
Teasing it out wrestling with this one right now is when Jesus talks about it would be better The people in Sodom and Gomorrah were better off because like they didn't really know any better like there was there was judgment against them But if they had seen what you see now, they would have repented and you haven't and Jesus has this like Confrontational moment then there's also and when Jesus says for for anyone who leads one of these young astray and
It'd be better to have a millstone tied around your neck and toss in the sea.
Because again, it's this indication that you knew better, and then you were leading other people into rebellion.
Yeah, it's a heavy one.
That's where I'm like, there's too many scriptures where I'm like, ugh.
I'm excited for next year.
I mean, I feel like y'all cooking over there.
Okay, be excited, but that thing comes down your block.
It comes down your road.
You don't get excited.
You're like, oh man, I thought I was good.
I mean, it is something to be excited about, but it also brings a higher level of accountability to us that, rightfully so, people want to be ignorant of, right?
They don't want to know that if I leave someone astray with,
my spiritual walk, then like, I'm in big trouble.
I'd rather have the scene in the matrix just eatin' the steak, you know, ignorance is bliss.
But it's not.
Help us, Jesus, please.
Help us, Jesus.
I mean, I think, I always say, I think our conversations are very timely.
David and I were just having a conversation about like, and not to like judge, but just, we've been to a lot of funerals the last couple of weeks and everyone,
likes to put everyone in heaven, you know?
And I was like, I had a moment where I'm like, how can we affirm where people are going?
Like, we don't know their hearts.
Like we only God knows them that intimate.
So it just sent me down this whole trail.
And so I think this was a good series to just not even to look at other people, but to align ourselves and be like, am I living a life of obedience?
Am I living in awe of Christ?
Am I?
Am I going to stand before him and he's going to say, well done?
Or am I just going to be in pride and not realize that I've missed the mark?
Yeah, this has definitely been a self-reflective series.
And the next one we're going into is gonna be very, also that.
Yes.
The exact same thing.
Just doing it again, just with different topics.
So come back to be beat up some more.
Right, right, it's gonna be fun.
We gotta tease them out, let's tease them.
What are we, what are we getting ready for?
So we're starting a new series called Red Flags.
Yes.
But this totally spoils my intro to the sermon, but it's all right.
It's not about looking out the window, it's about looking in the mirror.
because a lot of times when we talk about red flags, it's like, oh, they got a red flag up.
That's your red flag up.
That's your issue.
And we're just, we like to, you know, stare out the window and point at everybody else's issues.
And so this whole series is just about holding up the mirror to ourselves and saying, okay, do I have a red flag?
Should somebody else be looking at me going, eh, that's a problem.
I got a big log in my eye.
Get out of my notes.
All right.
Get out of his notes.
So yeah, so we're going to talk through extreme emotions.
We're going to talk through communication issues and we're going to talk through a savior complex.
And that one right there is going to get, oh no.
I don't know.
I'm not coming.
I'm not coming to none of them because I'm going to get in trouble with all three of them.
Yeah, and I don't think there's going to be an easy Sunday for the next three weeks.
Maybe the Holy Spirit will show up.
Everybody go home being like church was so great today.
The pastor was coming for me.
Save your complex.
Save.
Yes.
Well, that's in this plane.
Let's land it.
But as we land, I'm gonna tell you what your land should be.
Please do.
Can you just say your own?
No, you tell me.
He wanted to talk a little, he didn't get into the benefits of fearing the Lord.
I think that would be a good landing, maybe.
Listen, the benefits, I did share some of them.
And purposefully, I didn't include them in the sermon because the sermon really was about the Lord and being in his presence.
The benefits are wisdom.
The benefits are knowledge.
The benefits are knowing God truly.
The benefits are being close to and near a pure God and that purity is everlasting.
The benefits in this friendship is knowing his secrets, getting his understanding.
The benefits is that when you truly fear him, your seed will inherit the land.
You will have well-being in your soul.
the benefits that are beyond tangible things.
Again, it's not about the tangible, but if you are wise, if you are knowledgeable, if you are close to the Lord, if your children are blessed, they will show up tangibly.
So all of those are just some of the benefits.
The fear of the Lord and through obedience, it demolishes sin.
It demolishes sin, it breaks cycles.
These are just all things that show up in Proverbs, Psalms.
I would suggest as we come to the end of a month, go into Proverbs and you will find the fear of the Lord so many times and there will be even more benefits that I can sum up.
Okay, that was good.
Do you want that to be your takeaway?
I can't just tell you to make that your takeaway.
My takeaway for me or what I'm saying?
For people that are watching, what would be the takeaway from yesterday's message?
Man, if you focus on the fear of the Lord, it will literally change your life, your spiritual and natural life.
So the takeaway is I just admonish you.
Do a word search on this because God wants to change our lives for the better and make us closer to Him.
And the more we fear him, the more we see him in all of his aspects.
And lastly, I would just suggest doing, through Psalms especially, a word search on the different aspects of God, where it will say the Lord is.
Because the more you see God for who he is, the more you are changed.
And so when he led me into that, my own prayer and devotion time, where it was simply about knowing that he is marvelous,
that his name is a strong tower, that he is a stronghold for us, that he is our light in our salvation.
Seeing those helped me to be in more awe of him.
So I would just admonish you, read through Proverbs to see what the fear of the Lord does in us, and also begin to search the scripture for who God is, and it's not always about what we can get.
Let's go.
Love it.
Beautiful.
Yeah, thank you.
You want to go next?
Sure, you can close us out this time.
I think for me, the thing that is standing out to me is the delayed obedience piece.
I think sometimes we can just take our time.
I think we have the right to do that.
Fearing the Lord is really like when God is speaking and showing you something is trusting Him.
It's ultimately when I'm delaying, it's like I don't trust that this is gonna work out for my good or there's fear there.
So I would just say, you know, if God is speaking to you, He's encouraging you to do something.
Repent for delaying and really just get back in alignment.
So this message was good for me.
It's good stuff.
For me, it's the worship of sacrifice.
We had talked about it in sermon planning.
Like, it really does bug me.
And I wish I had a cleaner way of saying it, because I think yesterday I said it and it was plunky and it probably offended all the worship team members and all the stuff.
But it's like, we have the definition of worship wrong.
We have the definition of praise right.
Like, we do praise the right way, but worship is sacrifice, Old Testament, New Testament.
There's never a moment that I can think of in the Bible where worship was anything other than a sacrifice.
Yes, we praise him with tambourines and songs.
Like David talks about the praise, but anytime worship is referenced that I can think of at least, it involves sacrifice.
And so just a reminder for us that worship is sacrifice.
And then, I don't know if this is inappropriate because it wasn't, it was kind of part of your message.
For me when,
When you referenced Romans 12, it's one of my favorites.
I've used it here recently too.
But when I pulled it up for some reason, this time, the word, therefore, just slapped me in the face.
And it was like, how many times have I disconnected Romans 11 from Romans 12?
And so going back into Romans 11 and it ending with this awesome gift, the Gentiles are now grafted into the family of God.
And then he quotes Old Testament.
He just basically praises who God is.
goes on and on and on about how amazing God is, and then he says, therefore, offer your lives and your living sacrifice.
It's like, when you have a correct understanding of who God is, your response is to worship him through sacrifice.
And then that's verse one.
Verse two is, now don't be conformed to the pattern of the world.
So now, because I understand who God is, and because I'm worshiping him through sacrifice, I'm now going to live differently.
It's like, there's something about Romans 11 into Romans 12, and even just in those few verses that's just like Paul paints just such a amazing picture.
That's good.
Man, that's good.
This was a great conversation.
I'm telling you.
I hope you guys are full like I am.
Is that what they said in the old church?
I'm full.
I'm full from this weekend.
So much happened on Sunday that we can only attribute to God.
It was a great message.
And then I think this conversation really just put a pretty bowl on top of it.
So praise God.
We hope you were blessed as much as us.
We, we'd be in our own world here.
We'd be forgetting.
We're actually talking to people, but we hope you were encouraged by this episode, by this entire sermon series, Christian Atheist.
I encourage you go back, watch.
If you haven't had an opportunity to watch all of the sermons and then check out the between sermons because we answered all the questions you would have for every week in regards to are your Christian atheists.
And this is we want to provide hope.
There is still hope.
You're watching this episode and you might say I relate to this or that really hit home.
This is a great opportunity to pause.
submit to God repent and start over, especially before we go into that next series.
Like we don't want to go into the next series with all these issues.
And then he pointed out to a red flag.
So says brother, get it together.
Get it together now.
But yes, we love you here.
And until next time, we will see you soon.